In this video I'll demonstrate how to create an NFL data store.
So before we get started I want to show you some of the methodology that I'm using in my lab environment
here.
What I've actually done is gone ahead and created an NFL server on a Windows Server 2012 are two instance.
And here you can see a little folder that I created and I'm simply sharing this folder out Viana FS.
So I went ahead and installed this role on this particular Windows Server.
And the reason I want to show you this before we get going is because of a few configuration things
that you need to bear in mind.
Right so I created a little folder called and afast Demel I in this case decided to do no server authentication.
Now this depends are you doing.
And if this version 3 or are you doing an offensive version for one if you're doing NFC version 3.
It does not support Kerberos authentication.
So in this case I have basically not required any kind of server authentication and other permissions
what I could do is I could specifically add certain IP addresses that I want to allow to access this
and FS storage so I could limit access to this data store by specifying certain IP addresses where you
can see what I've done in this case is I've allowed all machines read write access.
And I'm actually allowing root access as well.
And that's another thing that's important.
So with N.F. US version 3 you have to allow root access to the data store.
So that has to actually be setup on my NFL server.
Now all of this changes with NFC version four out one with FS 4.1.
We can utilize Kerberos authentication to go ahead and allow access to that data store but I'm using
NFC version 3 in this case.
So I'm going to go ahead and launch my vees fair web client.
And once I get logged in I'm going to pick one of my ESX hosts and I'm going to go to that particular
host and create a new NFL data store and when I create that new data store what I'm essentially going
to do is I am going to point to that folder that I just created on that Windows Server.
That's how an NFL data store works right.
My ESX host does not own the file system it does not manage the file system the file system is managed
by that Windows Server that I just showed you.
So what I am essentially doing with an NFL data store is I am granting access to a shared folder on
some other server.
So let's go to my first host here and under storage I'm going to click on datasource.
We are at the configure tab and here we have the option to create a new data store.
And so I'm going to click on NTFS.
I'm going to choose FS version 3.
I'm going to set my data source.
I'm going to put in the folder that I created on my Windows Server and the IP address of the Windows
server itself.
And that's really it with of US version 3.
These are very simple and easy to create.
And so now let's take a look here's my new data store and.
And my data store is an NFL version 3 data store.
You can see here I've got a warning on the data store.
Let's take a look at what that warning is it should be a space warning because there's really not very
much space at all on that server to actually utilize HARRIS So Data Store usage on disk.
Yup that's what the problem is.
There's only four points one for gigs of space available.
And the reason is because there's only 4.1 four gigs available on the actual Windows server itself.
So that's what we're seeing here.
The storage capacity.
So anyways it's a relatively straightforward process to create an NFL data store.
So here in the storage view we see the new data store that I've just created.
And at the moment you can see it's only connected to one ESX host but I have multiple ESX I hosts that
could potentially also utilize that data store.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to the storage view.
I'm going to Right-Click that data store and I'm going to choose to mount the data store two additional
hosts and and pick the other hosts that should also have access to that data store and go ahead and
mounted to these other data stores.
So that way we can access this data store on multiple ESX hosts not just the one ESX host that are used
to create it and there we go.
It looks like it worked.
So if I go to this second ESX host I now see the NFL demo data store available here as well.
And then finally the last thing I want to show you if we go to our data store under the storage view
we can also choose to unmount this data store and I can pick which hosts I'm going to unmount it from.
Now the main thing to bear in mind here is that when you unmount a NFC data store you're not actually
deleting any of the data contained in that data store remember.
In this case my NFA server is on a Windows Server 2012 virtual machine Well I don't own that file system.
My ESX I host do not own that file system.
They cannot destroy that folder.
So if I go hadn't unmount the data store what I'm essentially saying is that my ESX I hosts no longer
need access to that particular data store but all the files and folders that exist in that folder are
still going to be there.
So I'm not actually destroying the data.
I'm simply unmounting the data store from these ESX I hosts.
And now you can see the data store is no longer available to them but any files that were created in
that data store will still exist.
They will not be destroyed when it unmounting.